Secure Extensions Documentation (#19998)
directus/directus: docs/extensions/secure/execution-types.md

contributors: Nils Twelker, Kevin Lewis, Esther Agbaje
---

# Execution Types

In a Secure Extension, the `exec` function is an asynchronous operation that returns a `Promise` object. It executes a
specific operation defined by an execution type.

```js
await exec(executionType, ...additionalArguments)
```

The first argument of the `exec` function is an `executionType` string, which represents the type of operation to be
conducted. The `executionType` should correspond to a valid, available execution type.

Additional parameters required by the `exec` function depend on the provided execution type. These are added after the
`executionType` parameter.

There are built-in execution types provided with the `exec` function that are available to all extensions, irrespective
of its permissions, while other execution types may be added through granted permissions.

:::warning Handle Optional Permissions

If an invalid or non-existent `executionType` is passed to the `exec` function, it will throw an error. If you set some
permissions as optional, you should handle both cases where they are and are not granted.

:::

## Log

> The `log` execution type allows you to show a message in the console as `console.log` is not available in isolates.

Reviewer: WDYT about such this small rephrase?
```suggestion
The `log` execution type allows you to log a message to the console, as an alternative to `console.log` which is not available in isolates.
```

I would formulate the other descriptions of execution types like this as well: as an alternative to ...
to ensure that no 1-to-1 comparison is made

::: tabs

== Signature

```js
async function exec('log', message: string)
```

== Example

```js
await exec('log', 'Hello, world!');
```

:::

The `log` execution type is available in all Directus Secure Extensions with no further permissions required.

## Request

The `request` execution type allows you to make HTTP requests as `fetch` is unavailable in an isolate.

::: tabs

== Signature

```js
async function exec('request', url: string, options?: {
  method: 'GET' | 'POST' | 'PUT' | 'PATCH' | 'DELETE',
  body?: string,
  headers?: Record<string, string>,
  output: 'text' | 'json'
}): Promise<string | Record<string, any>>
```

== Simple Example

```js
const text = await exec('request', 'https://example-api.com');
```

== Complex Example

```js
const text = await exec('request', 'https://example-api.com', {
	method: 'GET',
	headers: {
		'User-Agent': 'Directus Extension'
	}
});
```

:::

The `request` execution type requires the following permissions are added to your extension's metadata:

```js
{
	permission: 'request',
	optional: boolean,
	allowedUrls: string[]
}
```

`optional` can be omitted and will default to `false`.

> `allowedUrls` contains an array of strings, which may be regex or use wildcard notation.

Reviewer: Would be great to have a small example for `allowedUrls` here 😃

## Endpoints

### Register Endpoint

The Secure Extensions Framework intentionally limits your access to the scoped router which defines your endpoint's
paths.

Instead of being able to define the namespace of your endpoints, Secure Extensions will always use the full extension
name. For example, an extension with name `directus-extension-my-extension` will have all of it's endpoints under
`https://example.directus.app/directus-extension-my-extension/`.

::: tabs

== Signature

```js
async function exec('register-endpoint', {
  path: string,
  method: 'GET' | 'POST' | 'PUT' | 'PATCH' | 'DELETE',
  handler: (req: {
			url: string,
			headers: Record<string, string>,
			body: string,
			baseUrl: string
		}
	): Promise<{
		status: number,
		body: string | Record<string, any>
	}>,
});
```

== Example

```js
await exec('register-endpoint', {
	method: 'POST',
	path: '/',
	handler: async function (request) {
		return {
			status: 200,
			body: `The body received was ${request.body}!`
		}
	}
});
```

:::

The `register-action` execution type is available in all Directus Secure Extensions with no further permissions
required.

## Operations

### Register Operation

> 

Reviewer: Seems like the description is missing here 😇
